Air Temperature. Press the big button to turn the thermometer on. Hold the electric thermometer by the plastic body in the shade (you can use your body for shade). Wait for the numbers to stabilize. If they're the numbers are jumping between two numbers, just pick one.

D.O. and Water Temperature. Put the black cage on the YSI probe. Turn on the meter using the green button a couple minutes before you put it in the water. There are four readings on the screen. We use the top and bottom ones. Top: water temperature; Bottom: dissolved oxygen in ppm. Submerge the probe fully beneath the water surface while holding the meter in your hand. Wait a minute or so until the numbers stabilize. Write down each variable down on the data sheet. Troubleshooting: If the DO is above 13, try moving the probe around in the water or move it to a different spot. If it's still above 13, let Anna know. When it's time to change the probe, the DO readings skew high (as high as 16!).

Macronutrients. Rinse the syringe: Fill syringe with sea water and squeeze it out. Repeat two more times (The filter should not be on). Screw the filter casing on to the bottom of the syringe and slowly squeeze out a couple drops to ensure the casing is seated correctly. Rinse the vial: Open nutrient vial and fill ¼ of the way with filtered water. Hold the cap in your hand. You can pick up excess nutrients if it's placed on the dock/ground. Cap, shake, and dump water. Repeat two more times. Fill the sample bottle 2/3^rds^ full of filtered water from the syringe. Cap the bottle and immediately put it in the ice bath in the cooler.

Phytoplankton Sample. Spray bottle should be filled with filtered seawater (hold the sieve at an angle over the mouth of the spray bottle for ease of filling). You can use the same filtered water for multiple sites. Clean any remained particles from the sieve. Take your bucket and fill it up to the 5 L line. Pour 5L bucket sample through the 20 μm sieve. DO NOT OVERFLOW OR SPILL. Repeat with another 5L so you have filtered a total of 10 liters. When all water has drained, invert sieve over the funnel attached to the 50 mL centrifuge tube. Backwash using the spray bottle until you have 15ml in the centrifuge tube. If sample is over/under 15 mL, note this on the field sheet. Put sample in cooler, away from ice, and transport back to the lab.

Transparency. This is measured in meters. One volunteer slowly lowers the secchi disk into the water while another volunteer lays on his/her belly with the aquascope in the water watching the secchi disk descend. The volunteer with the aquascope tells the volunteer with the secchi disk when the disk disappears from view and measures the depth (descending depth). The secchi disk is then slowly raised and the volunteer with the aquascope reads where the secchi disk reappears (ascending depth). Write down both depths on the data sheet. If the disk hits bottom and you can still see it, mark that on the data sheet as an observation and note the depth at which the disk hit bottom.

Domoic acid whole-water samples. Take the two 500 mL brown Nalgenes and the 1000mL Nalgene. Fill and rinse each one three times. Fill to shoulder with seawater and cap.
